The problem number three, you throw rocks up in the air as hard as you can, it stays in the air for
a total of six seconds.
What was the velocity of the rock when you throw it?
OK, so we're throwing a rock straight up in the air.
It's staying in the air for a total of six seconds.
OK, so it's kind of just pretty straightforward telling us that our T total.
Is six seconds.
OK, so once again, if this is our initial this is our final position, what's once again we're going
to be using that because we like the idea that our final velocity here is equal to zero meters per second.
Then what is the time for it to rise up to the point of the tickets to the highest point?
That's going to be equal to three seconds.
By now, you should be definitely picking that up.
OK, so what's the initial hype?
And where are we trying to find here?
What was the velocity of the rock when you throw it?
Oh, isn't that the the initial velocity?
We know that the final velocity is zero meters per second.
And what is acceleration?
What's the acceleration due to gravity?
And the key from here to here is there are three seconds, do you see how simple it would just be to
take this t this six seconds here and plug it right into here just because you see seconds here and
and what that says to you at the time?
But the fact is that you could actually just be using three seconds, which is half of it.
So you'll get something some.
I don't get stumped up on that, OK.
Does it say anything about the height?
No.
Right.
So this right here is going to be the variable that we don't care about.
And let's try to look for our equations.
That has to do with the final height.
And I see right here that funnel height right there.
We also have final height right there, pretty quick to identify those two.
And we have our final height right here.
So we know that we are going to be using our third equation.
And don't worry if you feel like that, hey, now, once again, I'm going through another problem with
you.
I will have plenty of problems for you to be doing on your own soon.
So don't be worrying about that, about not having enough practice problems for yourself.
Simple substitution.
OK, so we have here we have our negative nine point eight times positive three that will result in
a negative.
Um.
Twenty nine point four add twenty nine point four to both sides of the equation, we get twenty nine
point four meters per second as our initial velocity.
OK, so that's that problem.
And hopefully by now you are getting a good handle on these.